.\"  -*- nroff -*-
.\"
.\" mlvmd.conf.5
.\"
.\" Author: Guillaume Autran <gautran@uoguelph.ca>
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2003 Guillaume Autran, Guelph, Ontario, Canada
.\"                    All rights reserved
.\"
.\" Created: Thu Feb 20 07:58:13 EST 2003 gautran
.\"
.\" $Id: mlvmd.conf.5,v 1.5 2003/03/14 16:18:05 gautran Exp $
.\"
.Dd February 20, 2003
.Dt MLVMD.CONF 5
.Os
.Sh NAME
.Nm mlvmd.conf
.Nd The configuration file for the MLVM Daemon (Multi-thread Light-weight Virtual Machine)
.Sh SYNOPSIS
The 
.Nm
file is a configuration file for the MLVM Daemon program. 
The file contains runtime configuration information for the daemon. 
It is designed to be configured and administered by the manually. 
The complete description of the file format and possible parameters held within are here for reference purposes.
.Sh FILE FORMAT
The file consists of parameters.
.Pp
name = value
.Pp
The file is line-based - that is, each newline-terminated line represents either a comment or a parameter.
Parameter names are case sensitive.
.Pp
Only  the  first  equals  sign  in a parameter is significant. Whitespace before or after the first equals sign is discarded.  
Leading and trailing whitespace in parameter names is irrelevant.  Leading  and  trailing whitespace in a parameter value is discarded. 
Internal whitespace within a parameter value is retained verbatim.
.Pp
Any line beginning with a semicolon (';') or a hash ('#') character is ignored, as are lines containing only whitespace.
.\"Pp
.\"Any line ending in a '\' is continued on the next line in the customary UNIX fashion.
.Pp
The values following the equals sign in parameters are all either a string (no quotes needed), a boolean, which may be given  as  yes/no, 0/1 or true/false or an integer. 
Case is not significant in boolean values, but is preserved in string values. 
.Sh PARAMETERS
parameters define the specific attributes of the server.
The parameter specified in the configuration file are ignored when their equivalent option in the command-line is specified.
.Pp
parameters are arranged here in alphabetical order - this may not create best bed fellows, but  at  least  you  can  find them! 
Where there are synonyms, the preferred synonym is described, others refer to the preferred synonym.
.Sh COMPLETE LIST OF PARAMETERS
Here is a list of all parameters. See the section of each parameter for details. Note that some are synonyms.
.Pp
.Bl -tag -width Ds
.It Ar Hostname
.It Ar LocalStubPort
.It Ar LogLevel
.It Ar MaxSystemThread
.It Ar OutputStreamfile 
.It Ar ServerPort
.It Ar StartAsDaemon 
.El
.Sh EXPLANATION OF EACH PARAMETER
.Bl -tag -width Ds
.It Ar Hostname
This parameter may be used to specified the primary name for this host. 
If the 
.Xr mlvmd 8
daemon cannot properly resolve the hostname for this machine, you can explicitly set it with this parameter.
The default is empty and a normal name resolution will be attempted on this host.
.Pp
Example: Hostname = localhost
.br
Default: Hostname = 
.It Ar LocalStubPort
The value of the parameter (an integer) allows the local UNIX server port to be specified in the 
.Nm
file.
.Pp
The local UNIX server port is used by clients (like
.Xr mlvmc 1 )
to communicate with the server. 
The range must be between 0 and 65535 exclusive.
.Pp
Example: LocalStubPort = 8888
.br
Default: LocalStubPort = 2223
.It Ar LogLevel
The value of the parameter (an integer) allows the debug level (logging level) to be specified in the 
.Nm
file. This is to give greater flexibility in the configuration of the system.
.Pp
The default will be the log level specified on the command line or level five if none was specified.
.Pp
Example: LogLevel = 3
.It Ar MaxSystemThread
The value of the parameter (an integer) allows the number of system thread to be specified in the
.Nm
file.
.Pp
The number of system thread define the maximum number of Imago agent that can be scheduled for running at the same time. 
If more Imago are in the ready state, they will wait until one of the currently executed Imago is been put back in the scheduler queue.
.Pp
Default: MaxSystemThread = 10
.br
Example: MaxSystemThread = 20
.It Ar OutputStreamfile 
The value of the parameter (a path to a file) allows the output generated by Imago to be redirected to the file provided as argument.
Imago output is discarded in a default behavior or forwarded to the standard output stream when the server is started with the -D (no daemon) flag.
.Pp
Example: OutputStreamfile = /var/log/mlvmd_output.log
.It Ar ServerPort
The value of the parameter (an integer) allows the server port to be specified in the 
.Nm
file.
.Pp
Specifies the port on which the server listens for connections.
Ports specified in the configuration file are ignored when a command-line port is specified.
The range must be between 0 and 65535 exclusive.
.Pp
Example: ServerPort = 8888
.br
Default: ServerPort = 2223
.It Ar StartAsDaemon 
The value of this parameter (a boolean yes/no) allows the server to start automatically as a daemon or not.
.Pp
Default: StartAsDaemon = yes
.El
.Sh AUTHORS
Guillaume Autran <gautran@uoguelph.ca>
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr imagoc 1 ,
.Xr masm 1 ,
.Xr mlvmc 1 ,
.Xr mlvmd 8 .