.\"  -*- nroff -*-
.\"
.\" mlvm.1
.\"
.\" Author: Guillaume Autran <gautran@uoguelph.ca>
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2003 Guillaume Autran, Guelph, Ontario, Canada
.\"                    All rights reserved
.\"
.\" Created: Thu Feb 20 07:58:13 EST 2003 gautran
.\"
.\" $Id: mlvmd.8,v 1.4 2003/03/16 14:32:48 gautran Exp $
.\"
.Dd February 20, 2003
.Dt MLVMD 8
.Os
.Sh NAME
.Nm mlvmd
.Nd Imago Mobile-Agent Daemon (Multi-thread Light-weight Virtual Machine)
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.Nm mlvmd
.Op Fl dDhqv
.Op Fl f Ar config
.Op Fl l Ar level
.Op Fl p Ar port
.Op Fl t Ar num
.Op Fl u Ar port
.Oo
.Fl i
.Ar imago1
.Oo
.Fl i
.Ar imago2
.Op Ar ...
.Oc
.Oc
.Sh DESCRIPTION
.Nm
(MLVM Daemon) is the daemon program for 
.Xr mlvmc 1 .
Together these programs run imago prolog mobile agents. 
.Xr mlvmd 8
is normally started at boot from
.Pa /etc/rc .
It spawn multiple threads to run mobile agents. The exact number of threads started may be specified in the configuration file 
.Xr mlvmd.conf 8
as well as all other options provided in the command line. The program is intended to be as easy to install and use as possible.
.Pp
The options are as follows:
.Bl -tag -width Ds
.It Fl d
Debug mode.
The server sends verbose debug output to the system log, and does not put itself in the background. This option is only intended for debugging for the server.
.It Fl D
When this option is specified
.Nm
will not detach and does not become a daemon.
This allows easy monitoring of
.Nm mlvmd .
.It Fl f Ar config
Specifies the name of the configuration file.
The default is
.Pa /etc/mlvm/mlvmd.conf .
.It Fl h
Print a one-line help message and exit.
.It Fl l Ar level
Logging level.
Indicates the amount of output sent to the system log. Full debugging -d is equivalent to the level 7. Quiet mode -q is equivalent to level 0.
.It Fl p Ar port
Specifies the port on which the server listens for connections (default 2223).
.It Fl q
Quiet mode.
The server will not send and output to the system log.
If the options -d and -q are provided at the same time, the last option specified will prevail.
.It Fl t Ar num
Maximum System Threads.
The server will not
Specifies the number of system threads the server will spawn at startup (default 10).
.It Fl u Ar port
Specifies which UNIX port the server daemon should listen for local connection from the
.Xr mlvmc 1
client program.
.It Fl v
Print the version information and exit.
.El
.Sh FILES
.Bl -tag -width Ds
.It Pa /etc/mlvm/mlvmd.conf
Contains configuration data for
.Nm mlvmd .
The file format and configuration options are described in
.Xr mlvmd.conf 5 .
.It Pa /etc/mlvm/imago_host_key 
This file contains the private and public part of the host keys.
This file should only be owned by root, readable only by root, and not accessible to others.
Note that
.Nm
does not start if this file is group/world-accessible.
.It Pa /etc/mlvm/known_hosts
This file contains the public host keys of all known servers.
.It Pa /share/mlvm/msger/*.lo
This files are the system default imago messenger code. They can be invoked at anytime in your imago prolog program by prefixing their name with a $ sign.
.It Pa /var/spool/mlvm/transport/
Imago transport spooling directory used for saving transport pdus while processed.
.El
.Sh AUTHORS
Guillaume Autran <gautran@uoguelph.ca> and Xining Li <xli@uoguelph.ca>
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr imagoc 1 ,
.Xr masm 1 ,
.Xr mlvmc 1 ,
.Xr mlvmd.conf 5 .
